docs/en/install/install-with-docker.md, before:

---
title: Docker (5 seconds)
---

# Docker (5 seconds)

**Latest release version:** [**1.0.4**](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase/releases/tag/1.0.4)

<hint-block type="info">

When running on docker, the --publish \{{hostport\}}:\{{containerport\}} and the ---port flag must be the same. Like the example below, all 3 ports are 5678: --publish 5678:5678 --port 5678

</hint-block>

```bash
$ docker run --init \
  --name bytebase \
  --restart always \
  --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
  --publish 5678:5678 \
  --volume ~/.bytebase/data:/var/opt/bytebase \
  bytebase/bytebase:1.0.4 \
  --data /var/opt/bytebase \
  --host http://localhost \
  --port 5678
```

## Run on localhost:8080

```bash
$ docker run --init \
  --name bytebase \
  --restart always \
  --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
  --publish 8080:8080 \
  --volume ~/.bytebase/data:/var/opt/bytebase \
  bytebase/bytebase:1.0.4 \
  --data /var/opt/bytebase \
  --host http://localhost \
  --port 8080
```

Bytebase will then start on http://localhost:8080 and store its data under `~/.bytebase/data` (Check [Server Startup Options](/docs/reference/command-line) for other startup options).

Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in you browser and create the admin account.

<hint-block type="info">

Bytebase has already prepared some sample data. In particular, it has created a Test environment and a Prod environment, each containing a mysql instance. To establish the connection to those instances, one quick way is to [start a MySQL docker instance](#start-a-mysql-docker-instance-for-testing).

</hint-block>

## Run on https://bytebase.example.com

<hint-block type="info">

For production setup, you need to make sure [--host](/docs/reference/command-line#host-less-than-less-than-string-greater-than-greater-than), [--port](/docs/reference/command-line#port-less-than-less-than-number-greater-than-greater-than) match exactly to the host:port address where Bytebase supposed to be visited. Please check [Production Setup](/docs/operating/production-setup) for more advice.

</hint-block>

```bash
$ docker run --init \
  --name bytebase \
  --restart always \
  --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
  --publish 80:80 \
  --volume ~/.bytebase/data:/var/opt/bytebase \
  bytebase/bytebase:1.0.3 \
  --data /var/opt/bytebase \
  --host https://bytebase.example.com \
  --port 80
```

## Start a local MySQL server for testing

### Run MySQL inside Docker

<hint-block type="warning">

The setup below is for testing purpose and should NOT be used in production setup. Also the mysql data will be wiped out after the container stops.

</hint-block>

```bash
$ docker run --name mysqld \
  --publish 3306:3306 \
  -e MYSQL_ROOT_HOST=172.17.0.1 \
  -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=testpwd1 \
  mysql/mysql-server:8.0
```

172.17.0.1 is the default docker gateway IP to allow connection from Bytebase. See the [official MySQL docker doc](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/docker-mysql-more-topics.html#docker_var_mysql-root-host).

<hint-block type="info">

If Bytebase is run by docker, then it will also access the MySQL container via 172.17.0.1. This means you need to set **172.17.0.1 as the host for the configured instance**.

</hint-block>

### Run MySQL without Docker

You need to set **host.docker.internal** as the host for the configured instance.

## Troubleshoot

```bash
$ docker logs bytebase
```

Normally you should see something like:

```bash
-----Config BEGIN-----
mode=release
host=http://example.com
port=8080
dsn=file:/var/opt/bytebase/bytebase.db
seedDir=seed/release
readonly=false
demo=false
debug=false
-----Config END-------
2021-07-07T16:56:02.812Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:213     Apply database migration if needed...
2021-07-07T16:56:02.821Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:220     Current schema version before migration: 1.1
2021-07-07T16:56:02.821Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:247     Skip this migration file: migration/10001__init_schema.sql. The corresponding migration version 1.1 has already been applied.
2021-07-07T16:56:02.828Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:255     Current schema version after migration: 1.1
2021-07-07T16:56:02.828Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:263     Completed database migration.

██████╗ ██╗   ██╗████████╗███████╗██████╗  █████╗ ███████╗███████╗
██╔══██╗╚██╗ ██╔╝╚══██╔══╝██╔════╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██╔════╝██╔════╝
██████╔╝ ╚████╔╝    ██║   █████╗  ██████╔╝███████║███████╗█████╗
██╔══██╗  ╚██╔╝     ██║   ██╔══╝  ██╔══██╗██╔══██║╚════██║██╔══╝
██████╔╝   ██║      ██║   ███████╗██████╔╝██║  ██║███████║███████╗
╚═════╝    ╚═╝      ╚═╝   ╚══════╝╚═════╝ ╚═╝  ╚═╝╚══════╝╚══════╝

Version 0.1.0 has started at http://example.com:8080
```

If Bytebase fails to start, the error message should appear on the console around there.

Commit message:

docs: be more explicit about setting the host from the instance detail page (#163)
* fix: show post image section only if image is set and hide “hidden” and “chinese” tag

* feat: add hotjar integration

* docs: optimize wording

* docs: add border and make live demo button gray to highlight the deploy button

* feat: optimize webpage

* doc: add internal link

* doc: enlarge breadcrumb font

* doc: address comment

* doc: wording change

* docs: use <NuxtLink> to point to our doc installation section

* doc: style

* doc: better responsive design in the hero section

* doc: make subscribe section responsive

* docs: add troubleshooting

* doc: do not expose Chinese characters on English site

* docs: fix the installation guide

* feat: fix action button

* docs: fix the broken pricing link

* docs: update host from bytebase.com to www.bytebase.com

* docs: address comment

* docs: add dbcost.com to the footer

* docs: setting

* formatting

* docs: be more explicit about setting the host from the instance detail page

docs/en/install/install-with-docker.md, after:

---
title: Docker (5 seconds)
---

# Docker (5 seconds)

**Latest release version:** [**1.0.4**](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase/releases/tag/1.0.4)

<hint-block type="info">

When running on docker, the --publish \{{hostport\}}:\{{containerport\}} and the ---port flag must be the same. Like the example below, all 3 ports are 5678: --publish 5678:5678 --port 5678

</hint-block>

```bash
$ docker run --init \
  --name bytebase \
  --restart always \
  --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
  --publish 5678:5678 \
  --volume ~/.bytebase/data:/var/opt/bytebase \
  bytebase/bytebase:1.0.4 \
  --data /var/opt/bytebase \
  --host http://localhost \
  --port 5678
```

## Run on localhost:8080

```bash
$ docker run --init \
  --name bytebase \
  --restart always \
  --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
  --publish 8080:8080 \
  --volume ~/.bytebase/data:/var/opt/bytebase \
  bytebase/bytebase:1.0.4 \
  --data /var/opt/bytebase \
  --host http://localhost \
  --port 8080
```

Bytebase will then start on http://localhost:8080 and store its data under `~/.bytebase/data` (Check [Server Startup Options](/docs/reference/command-line) for other startup options).

Open [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) in you browser and create the admin account.

<hint-block type="info">

Bytebase has already prepared some sample data. In particular, it has created a Test environment and a Prod environment, each containing a mysql instance. To establish the connection to those instances, one quick way is to [start a MySQL docker instance](#start-a-mysql-docker-instance-for-testing).

</hint-block>

## Run on https://bytebase.example.com

<hint-block type="info">

For production setup, you need to make sure [--host](/docs/reference/command-line#host-less-than-less-than-string-greater-than-greater-than), [--port](/docs/reference/command-line#port-less-than-less-than-number-greater-than-greater-than) match exactly to the host:port address where Bytebase supposed to be visited. Please check [Production Setup](/docs/operating/production-setup) for more advice.

</hint-block>

```bash
$ docker run --init \
  --name bytebase \
  --restart always \
  --add-host host.docker.internal:host-gateway \
  --publish 80:80 \
  --volume ~/.bytebase/data:/var/opt/bytebase \
  bytebase/bytebase:1.0.3 \
  --data /var/opt/bytebase \
  --host https://bytebase.example.com \
  --port 80
```

## Start a local MySQL server for testing

### Run MySQL inside Docker

<hint-block type="warning">

The setup below is for testing purpose and should NOT be used in production setup. Also the mysql data will be wiped out after the container stops.

</hint-block>

```bash
$ docker run --name mysqld \
  --publish 3306:3306 \
  -e MYSQL_ROOT_HOST=172.17.0.1 \
  -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=testpwd1 \
  mysql/mysql-server:8.0
```

`172.17.0.1` is the default docker gateway IP to allow connection from Bytebase. See the [official MySQL docker doc](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/docker-mysql-more-topics.html#docker_var_mysql-root-host).

<hint-block type="info">

If Bytebase is run by docker, then it will also access the MySQL container via 172.17.0.1. This means when you add that instance from the instance detail page, you need to set **`172.17.0.1`** as the host.

</hint-block>

### Run MySQL without Docker

<hint-block type="info">

Unlike setting 172.17.0.1 mentioned in the above section, you need to set **`host.docker.internal`** as the host for the configured instance.

</hint-block>

## Troubleshoot

```bash
$ docker logs bytebase
```

Normally you should see something like:

```bash
-----Config BEGIN-----
mode=release
host=http://example.com
port=8080
dsn=file:/var/opt/bytebase/bytebase.db
seedDir=seed/release
readonly=false
demo=false
debug=false
-----Config END-------
2021-07-07T16:56:02.812Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:213     Apply database migration if needed...
2021-07-07T16:56:02.821Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:220     Current schema version before migration: 1.1
2021-07-07T16:56:02.821Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:247     Skip this migration file: migration/10001__init_schema.sql. The corresponding migration version 1.1 has already been applied.
2021-07-07T16:56:02.828Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:255     Current schema version after migration: 1.1
2021-07-07T16:56:02.828Z        INFO    store/sqlite.go:263     Completed database migration.

██████╗ ██╗   ██╗████████╗███████╗██████╗  █████╗ ███████╗███████╗
██╔══██╗╚██╗ ██╔╝╚══██╔══╝██╔════╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██╔════╝██╔════╝
██████╔╝ ╚████╔╝    ██║   █████╗  ██████╔╝███████║███████╗█████╗
██╔══██╗  ╚██╔╝     ██║   ██╔══╝  ██╔══██╗██╔══██║╚════██║██╔══╝
██████╔╝   ██║      ██║   ███████╗██████╔╝██║  ██║███████║███████╗
╚═════╝    ╚═╝      ╚═╝   ╚══════╝╚═════╝ ╚═╝  ╚═╝╚══════╝╚══════╝

Version 0.1.0 has started at http://example.com:8080
```

If Bytebase fails to start, the error message should appear on the console around there.
