content/docs/administration/2fa.md, before:

---
title: Two-factor authentication (2FA)
---

Two-factor authentication (2FA) provides an extra layer of security for member accounts. When signing in, you will be required to enter the security code generated by your Authenticator App.

## Configuring 2FA using a TOTP mobile app

### Step 1 - Download a TOTP app

A time-based one-time password (TOTP) application automatically generates an authentication code that changes after a certain period of time. We recommend using cloud-based TOTP apps such as:

- [Google Authenticator](https://googleauthenticator.net/)
- [Authy](https://authy.com/)
- [Microsoft Authenticator](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/mobile-authenticator-app/)
- [1Password](https://support.1password.com/one-time-passwords/)

### Step 2 - Enable "Two-factor authentication"

In the user's profile dashboard page, turn on the "Two-factor authentication" switch to enable 2FA for your account.

![enable-2fa](/static/docs/administration/2fa/enable-2fa.webp)

### Step 3 - Scan the QR code with your TOTP app

In the "Two-factor authentication" page, you will be prompted to scan the QR code with your TOTP app. Then enter the authentication code generated by your TOTP app to verify your identity.

![2fa-setup-step1](/static/docs/administration/2fa/2fa-setup-step1.webp)

If you can't scan the QR code, click **enter the text** to see a code that you can manually enter in your TOTP app instead.

### Step 4 - Download the recovery codes

After verifying your TOTP app, you will be prompted to download your recovery codes.

Under "Download your recovery codes", click **Download** to download your recovery codes to your device. Save them to a secure location because your recovery codes can help you get back into your account if you lose access.

![2fa-setup-step2](/static/docs/administration/2fa/2fa-setup-step2.webp)

### Step 5 - Click **I have saved my recovery codes** to finish

After saving your two-factor recovery codes, click **I have saved my recovery codes** to enable two-factor authentication for your account.

Commit message:

docs: update 2FA user doc with enter secret manually (#840)

content/docs/administration/2fa.md, after:

---
title: Two-factor authentication (2FA)
---

Two-factor authentication (2FA) provides an extra layer of security for member accounts. When signing in, you will be required to enter the security code generated by your Authenticator App.

## Configuring 2FA using a TOTP mobile app

### Step 1 - Download a TOTP app

A time-based one-time password (TOTP) application automatically generates an authentication code that changes after a certain period of time. We recommend using cloud-based TOTP apps such as:

- [Google Authenticator](https://googleauthenticator.net/)
- [Authy](https://authy.com/)
- [Microsoft Authenticator](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/mobile-authenticator-app/)
- [1Password](https://support.1password.com/one-time-passwords/)

### Step 2 - Enable "Two-factor authentication"

In the user's profile dashboard page, turn on the "Two-factor authentication" switch to enable 2FA for your account.

![enable-2fa](/static/docs/administration/2fa/enable-2fa.webp)

### Step 3 - Scan the QR code with your TOTP app

In the "Two-factor authentication" page, you will be prompted to scan the QR code with your TOTP app. Then enter the authentication code generated by your TOTP app to verify your identity.

![2fa-setup-step1](/static/docs/administration/2fa/2fa-setup-step1.webp)

If you can't scan the QR code, click **enter the text** to see the secret. You can then manually enter it in your TOTP application to get the authentication code.

![enter-your-secret](/static/docs/administration/2fa/enter-your-secret.webp)

### Step 4 - Download the recovery codes

After verifying your TOTP app, you will be prompted to download your recovery codes.

Under "Download your recovery codes", click **Download** to download your recovery codes to your device. Save them to a secure location because your recovery codes can help you get back into your account if you lose access.

![2fa-setup-step2](/static/docs/administration/2fa/2fa-setup-step2.webp)

### Step 5 - Click **I have saved my recovery codes** to finish

After saving your two-factor recovery codes, click **I have saved my recovery codes** to enable two-factor authentication for your account.
