content/docs/en/concepts/migration-types.md, before:

---
title: Migration Types
---

<hint-block type="info">

Migration type is only applicable to project using <a href="/docs/vcs-integration/overview">Version Control Workflow</a>.

</hint-block>

## Baseline Migration

After project has enabled version control workflow and then starts to onboard its managed database to use this workflow, Bytebase needs to know the current schema state of that live database. This is achieved by using a baseline migration script which includes the entire schema of that live database. **This also suggests the first migration to a database should alway be a baseline migration.**

For MySQL, the baseline script can be generated by [`mysqldump`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysqldump.html#option_mysqldump_no-data):

```bash
mysqldump --no-data <<dbname>>
```

See further details in

<doc-link-block url="/docs/vcs-integration/create-the-first-baseline-migration" title="Create the first baseline migration"></doc-link-block>

## Normal Migration

Normal migration is just the usual migration scripts containing DDL statements. Please also follow the [naming convention](/docs/vcs-integration/name-and-organize-schema-files) so that Bytebase can recognize and figure out which database the migration script applies to.

## Branch Migration

A branch migration history is recorded when a database is restored from a backup. See [Restore from Backup](/docs/disaster-recovery/backup-restore-database/restore-from-backup#step-4-view-the-restored-database) for details.

Commit message:

docs: add data change migration type doc (#418)
* docs: data change migration type

* Update content/docs/en/vcs-integration/name-and-organize-schema-files.md

Co-authored-by: tianzhou <t@bytebase.com>

* Update content/docs/en/vcs-integration/name-and-organize-schema-files.md

Co-authored-by: tianzhou <t@bytebase.com>

Co-authored-by: tianzhou <t@bytebase.com>

content/docs/en/concepts/migration-types.md, after:

---
title: Migration Types
---

<hint-block type="info">

Migration type is only applicable to project using <a href="/docs/vcs-integration/overview">Version Control Workflow</a>.

</hint-block>

## Baseline Migration

After project has enabled version control workflow and then starts to onboard its managed database to use this workflow, Bytebase needs to know the current schema state of that live database. This is achieved by using a baseline migration script which includes the entire schema of that live database. **This also suggests the first migration to a database should alway be a baseline migration.**

For MySQL, the baseline script can be generated by [`mysqldump`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysqldump.html#option_mysqldump_no-data):

```bash
mysqldump --no-data <<dbname>>
```

See further details in

<doc-link-block url="/docs/vcs-integration/create-the-first-baseline-migration" title="Create the first baseline migration"></doc-link-block>

## Normal Migration

Normal migration is just the usual migration scripts containing DDL statements. Please also follow the [naming convention](/docs/vcs-integration/name-and-organize-schema-files) so that Bytebase can recognize and figure out which database the migration script applies to.

## Data Change

Data change is the migration type for data, i.e. a script consisting of DML statements.

## Branch Migration

A branch migration history is recorded when a database is restored from a backup. See [Restore from Backup](/docs/disaster-recovery/backup-restore-database/restore-from-backup#step-4-view-the-restored-database) for details.
