content/docs/en/_layout.md, before:

# docs_layout

## 👀 Introduction

### [What is Bytebase](/introduction/what-is-bytebase)

### [Use cases](/introduction/use-cases)

## 🐣 Get Started

### [Deploy in 5 Seconds](/get-started/deploy-in-5-seconds)  

### [Prepare the Workspace](/get-started/prepare-the-workspace)  

### [Run a SQL Review Workflow](/get-started/run-an-sql-review-workflow-in-a-project)

## 🚀 Install

### [Docker (5 seconds)](/install/install-with-docker)

### [Build from Source](/install/build-from-source)

### [Use External PostgreSQL Database](/install/external-postgres)

## 📚 Concepts

### [Data Model](/concepts/data-model)

### [Roles and Permissions](/concepts/roles-and-permissions)

### [Schema Change Workflow](/concepts/schema-change-workflow)

### [Migration Types](/concepts/migration-types)

### [Tenant Database](/concepts/tenant-database)

## ✨ Features

### [SQL Review](/features/sql-review)

### [Version Control (GitOps)](/features/version-control)

### [Tenant Database Management](/features/tenant-database-management)

### [SQL Editor](/features/sql-editor/overview)

#### [Compose a Query](/features/sql-editor/writing-a-query)

#### [Run and EXPLAIN Query](/features/sql-editor/run-queries)

#### [Query Results](/features/sql-editor/query-results)

#### [Explore the Schema](/features/sql-editor/explore-the-schema)

#### [Saved Sheet and Query History](/features/sql-editor/never-miss-your-works)

#### [Share Sheet with Teammates](/features/sql-editor/share-sheet-with-teammates)

### [SQL Advisor](/features/sql-advisor/overview)

#### [Backward Compatibility Migration Check](/features/sql-advisor/backward-compatibility-migration-check)

### [Migration History](/features/migration-history)

### [Drift Detection](/features/drift-detection)

### [Backup and Restore](/features/backup-and-restore)

### [Anomaly Center](/features/anomaly-center)

### [Webhook](/features/webhook)

### [Archive](/features/archive)

## 🧭 Use Bytebase

### [SQL Review Interface](/use-bytebase/sql-review-interface/overview)

#### [Create the SQL review ticket](/use-bytebase/sql-review-interface/create-the-sql-review-ticket)

### [VCS Integration (GitOps)](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/overview)

#### [Add Git Provider](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/add-git-provider)

#### [Enable Version Control Workflow (GitOps) in Project](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/enable-version-control-workflow)

#### [Name and Organize Schema Files](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/name-and-organize-schema-files)

#### [Create the First Baseline Migration](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/create-the-first-baseline-migration)

#### [🐞 Troubleshoot](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/troubleshoot)

### [Backup and Restore Database](/use-bytebase/backup-restore-database/overview)

#### [Backup](/use-bytebase/backup-restore-database/backup)

#### [Restore from Backup](/use-bytebase/backup-restore-database/restore-from-backup)

### [Environment Policy](/use-bytebase/environment-policy/overview)

#### [Approval Policy](/use-bytebase/environment-policy/approval-policy)

#### [Backup Schedule Policy](/use-bytebase/environment-policy/backup-schedule-policy)

### [Webhook Integration](/use-bytebase/webhook-integration/overview)

#### [Project Webhook](/use-bytebase/webhook-integration/project-webhook)

#### [Database Webhook](/use-bytebase/webhook-integration/database-webhook)

## ⚙️ Settings

### [Customize the Workspace with Your Own Logo](/settings/customize-workspace/)

## 🔧 Operating

### [Production Setup](/operating/production-setup)

### [Disaster Recovery](/operating/disaster-recovery)

### [How Bytebase Stores Data](/operating/how-bytebase-stores-data)

### [Telemetry](/operating/telemetry)

## 📖 Reference

### [Server Startup Options](/reference/command-line)

## [Error Code](/error-code)

## Troubleshooting

### [How to perform upgrade](/troubleshooting/how-to-perform-upgrade)

### [How to solve OAuth CORS error with old GitLab version](/troubleshooting/how-to-solve-oauth-cors-error-with-old-gitlab-version)

### [Unable to start Bytebase with Docker](/troubleshooting/unable-to-start-bytebase-with-docker)

## [FAQ](/faq)

## [✍️ Document write guide](/document-write-guide)

Commit message:

chore: add default expand list to docs layout (#218)
* chore: add default expand list to docs layout

* chore: rename docs

content/docs/en/_layout.md, after:

---
# expand_section_list is the list of default expanded sections.
expand_section_list: ["Introduction", "👉 Get Started with Bytebase"]
---

# docs_layout

## Introduction

### [What is Bytebase](/introduction/what-is-bytebase)

### [Use Cases](/introduction/use-cases)

## 🐣 Get Started

### [Deploy in 5 Seconds](/get-started/deploy-in-5-seconds)

### [Prepare the Workspace](/get-started/prepare-the-workspace)

### [Run a SQL Review Workflow](/get-started/run-an-sql-review-workflow-in-a-project)

## 🚀 Install

### [Docker (5 seconds)](/install/install-with-docker)

### [Build from Source](/install/build-from-source)

### [Use External PostgreSQL Database](/install/external-postgres)

## 📚 Concepts

### [Data Model](/concepts/data-model)

### [Roles and Permissions](/concepts/roles-and-permissions)

### [Schema Change Workflow](/concepts/schema-change-workflow)

### [Migration Types](/concepts/migration-types)

### [Tenant Database](/concepts/tenant-database)

## ✨ Features

### [SQL Review](/features/sql-review)

### [Version Control (GitOps)](/features/version-control)

### [Tenant Database Management](/features/tenant-database-management)

### [SQL Editor](/features/sql-editor/overview)

#### [Compose a Query](/features/sql-editor/writing-a-query)

#### [Run and EXPLAIN Query](/features/sql-editor/run-queries)

#### [Query Results](/features/sql-editor/query-results)

#### [Explore the Schema](/features/sql-editor/explore-the-schema)

#### [Saved Sheet and Query History](/features/sql-editor/never-miss-your-works)

#### [Share Sheet with Teammates](/features/sql-editor/share-sheet-with-teammates)

### [SQL Advisor](/features/sql-advisor/overview)

#### [Backward Compatibility Migration Check](/features/sql-advisor/backward-compatibility-migration-check)

### [Migration History](/features/migration-history)

### [Drift Detection](/features/drift-detection)

### [Backup and Restore](/features/backup-and-restore)

### [Anomaly Center](/features/anomaly-center)

### [Webhook](/features/webhook)

### [Archive](/features/archive)

## 🧭 Use Bytebase

### [SQL Review Interface](/use-bytebase/sql-review-interface/overview)

#### [Create the SQL review ticket](/use-bytebase/sql-review-interface/create-the-sql-review-ticket)

### [VCS Integration (GitOps)](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/overview)

#### [Add Git Provider](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/add-git-provider)

#### [Enable Version Control Workflow (GitOps) in Project](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/enable-version-control-workflow)

#### [Name and Organize Schema Files](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/name-and-organize-schema-files)

#### [Create the First Baseline Migration](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/create-the-first-baseline-migration)

#### [🐞 Troubleshoot](/use-bytebase/vcs-integration/troubleshoot)

### [Backup and Restore Database](/use-bytebase/backup-restore-database/overview)

#### [Backup](/use-bytebase/backup-restore-database/backup)

#### [Restore from Backup](/use-bytebase/backup-restore-database/restore-from-backup)

### [Environment Policy](/use-bytebase/environment-policy/overview)

#### [Approval Policy](/use-bytebase/environment-policy/approval-policy)

#### [Backup Schedule Policy](/use-bytebase/environment-policy/backup-schedule-policy)

### [Webhook Integration](/use-bytebase/webhook-integration/overview)

#### [Project Webhook](/use-bytebase/webhook-integration/project-webhook)

#### [Database Webhook](/use-bytebase/webhook-integration/database-webhook)

## ⚙️ Settings

### [Customize the Workspace with Your Own Logo](/settings/customize-workspace/)

## 🔧 Operating

### [Production Setup](/operating/production-setup)

### [Disaster Recovery](/operating/disaster-recovery)

### [How Bytebase Stores Data](/operating/how-bytebase-stores-data)

### [Telemetry](/operating/telemetry)

## 📖 Reference

### [Server Startup Options](/reference/command-line)

## [Error Code](/error-code)

## Troubleshooting

### [How to perform upgrade](/troubleshooting/how-to-perform-upgrade)

### [How to solve OAuth CORS error with old GitLab version](/troubleshooting/how-to-solve-oauth-cors-error-with-old-gitlab-version)

### [Unable to start Bytebase with Docker](/troubleshooting/unable-to-start-bytebase-with-docker)

## [FAQ](/faq)

## [✍️ Document write guide](/document-write-guide)
