content/docs/how-to/_layout.md, before:

---
# expand_section_list is the list of default expanded sections.
expand_section_list: ["Workflow", "Integrations", "ClickHouse"]
---

## SQL Review Guide

### [PostgreSQL](/how-to/sql-review/postgres-sql-review-guide)

## Workflow

### [GitOps with Feature Branch](/how-to/workflow/gitops-feature-branch)

## Integrations

### [Supabase](/how-to/integrations/supabase)

### [Render](/how-to/integrations/render)

### [Neon](/how-to/integrations/neon)

## ClickHouse

### [How to Run ClickHouse with Docker](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-run-clickhouse-docker)

### [How to Connect ClickHouse with SSL](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-connect-clickhouse-ssl)

### [How to Create a Database](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-create-a-database-clickhouse)

### [How to Create a Table](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-create-a-table-clickhouse)

### [How to List Tables from a Database](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-list-tables-from-a-database-clickhouse)

### [How to Rename a Table](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-rename-a-table-clickhouse)

Commit message:

docs: add spanner & spanner how-tos (#741)
Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/how-to/_layout.md, after:

---
# expand_section_list is the list of default expanded sections.
expand_section_list: ["Workflow", "Integrations", "ClickHouse", "Spanner"]
---

## SQL Review Guide

### [PostgreSQL](/how-to/sql-review/postgres-sql-review-guide)

## Workflow

### [GitOps with Feature Branch](/how-to/workflow/gitops-feature-branch)

## Integrations

### [Supabase](/how-to/integrations/supabase)

### [Render](/how-to/integrations/render)

### [Neon](/how-to/integrations/neon)

## ClickHouse

### [How to Run ClickHouse with Docker](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-run-clickhouse-docker)

### [How to Connect ClickHouse with SSL](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-connect-clickhouse-ssl)

### [How to Create a Database](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-create-a-database-clickhouse)

### [How to Create a Table](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-create-a-table-clickhouse)

### [How to List Tables from a Database](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-list-tables-from-a-database-clickhouse)

### [How to Rename a Table](/how-to/clickhouse/how-to-rename-a-table-clickhouse)

## Spanner

### [How to Find Project ID and Instance ID](/how-to/spanner/how-to-find-project-id-and-instance-id)

### [How to Create a Service Account for Bytebase](/how-to/spanner/how-to-create-a-service-account-for-bytebase)
