docs/document-write-guide.md, before:

---
title: ✍️ Document write guide
order: -1
---

# ✍️ Document write guide

This section shows the steps of writing a document.

## The structure of `.md` file

```markdown
---
title: Document write guide
order: 40100
---

# How to write a document?

Write the document content right here.
```

It's a little different from a common Markdown file. In order not to involve changes to code files, we need to save its metadata between the `--- xxx ---` block. Typically used fields are:

- `title` is the display text in sidebar;
- `order` indicates the display order. It is an integer representing an array of three two-digit numbers: `{{category}}{{subcategory}}{{document}}`. **We support up to three folder structure. And the sub-directory structure determines the hierarchy.**

  For example, [Build from Source](/docs/install/build-from-source) is `10200` which can be `[1][2][0]`. This means that it's the second in the category, the third in the subcategory and the first in the leaf.
  ![corder-example](/static/docs-assets/order-example.jpeg)

## How to write a new document?

1. Write the full content in any editor that supports Markdown. e.g. [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)/[typora](https://typora.io/)
2. Think about where the article should be displayed in sidebar.
3. Follow the [example](#the-structure-of-md-file) to figure out the `order` value.
4. Add the metadata block at the top of the markdown file.
5. Refer to an existing structure, put the file under a folder of `./docs/`.
6. Run `pnpm dev` start the review server.
7. Go to [localhost:3000/docs](http://localhost:3000/docs) and check your creation.
8. If everything is fine, create a new PR with the changes to [our repo in GitHub](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase.com).

Commit message:

feat: overview page unclickable (#57)
* feat: dynamic metadata

* use `isHeader` instead of `hide`

docs/document-write-guide.md, after:

---
title: ✍️ Document write guide
description: This section shows the steps of writing a document. It's a little different from a common Markdown file. In order not to involve changes to code files, we need to save its metadata between the `--- xxx ---`.
order: -1
---

# ✍️ Document write guide

This section shows the steps of writing a document.

## The structure of `.md` file

```markdown
---
title: Document write guide
order: 40100
---

# How to write a document?

Write the document content right here.
```

It's a little different from a common Markdown file. In order not to involve changes to code files, we need to save its metadata between the `--- xxx ---` block. Typically used fields are:

- `title` is the display text in sidebar;
- `order` indicates the display order. It is an integer representing an array of three two-digit numbers: `{{category}}{{subcategory}}{{document}}`. **We support up to three folder structure. And the sub-directory structure determines the hierarchy.**

  For example, [Build from Source](/docs/install/build-from-source) is `10200` which can be `[1][2][0]`. This means that it's the second in the category, the third in the subcategory and the first in the leaf.
  ![corder-example](/static/docs-assets/order-example.jpeg)

## How to write a new document?

1. Write the full content in any editor that supports Markdown. e.g. [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)/[typora](https://typora.io/)
2. Think about where the article should be displayed in sidebar.
3. Follow the [example](#the-structure-of-md-file) to figure out the `order` value.
4. Add the metadata block at the top of the markdown file.
5. Refer to an existing structure, put the file under a folder of `./docs/`.
6. Run `pnpm dev` start the review server.
7. Go to [localhost:3000/docs](http://localhost:3000/docs) and check your creation.
8. If everything is fine, create a new PR with the changes to [our repo in GitHub](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase.com).
